README.md, before:

MB Loan
=======

A Java / Spring Framework / Hibernate micro-lending app, available via 
* WEB gui (login authoentication)
* REST interface (http basic authentication)


Copyright (C) 2014, [Massimo Barbieri](http://www.massimobarbieri.it) 

## Business rules

* Client can apply for loan after registation.
* Loan is rejected if:
    1. the attempt to take loan is made after from 00:00 to 6:00 AM with max possible amount.
    1. reached 3 applications per day from a single IP.
* Client can extend a loan for one week, interest gets increased by a factor of 1.5.

## Environment

Spring Boot
Tomcat 
PostgreSQL or HSQLDB
Maven

## API examples

### Register as a new User

request:
```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/users -d "{ \"name\": \"massimo\", \"surname\":\"barbieri\", \"email\":\"massimo@massimobarbieri.it\", \"password\":\"secret\" }"
```

response:
```
{"status": "success","objectId": 5,"errorMessage": "","links": [{"rel": "loans","href": "http://localhost:8080/api/loans"}]}
```

### Apply for a Loan

request:
```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans -d "{ \"amount\": 100, \"duration\":42 }" --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
{"status":"success","objectId":1,"errorMessage":"","links":[{"rel":"self","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"}]}
```

### Get info on a specific Loan

request:
```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1 --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
{"loan":{"id":1,"creationDate":1400271432200,"amount":100.00,"interest":0.03,"duration":42,"ipAddress":"127.0.0.1","loanExtensions":[]},"links":[{"rel":"self","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"},{"rel": "extend","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1/loan_extension"}]}
```

### Get info on all Loans

request:
```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans/ --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
[{"loan":{"id":1,"creationDate":1400269742160,"amount":100.00,"interest":0.18,"duration":46,"ipAddress":"127.0.0.1","loanExtensions":[{"id":1,"creationDate":1400269858314},{"id":2,"creationDate":1400269860371},{"id":3,"creationDate":1400269861472},{"id":4,"creationDate":1400269897636}]},"links":[{"rel":"self","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"},{"rel":"extend","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1/loan_extension"}]}]
```

### Extend a Loan

request:
```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1/loan_extension --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
{"status":"success","objectId":1,"errorMessage":"","links":[{"rel":"loan","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"}]}
```

## License

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE V 3

Commit message:

README.md: added application usage; some code formatting

README.md, after:

MB Loan
=======

A Java / Spring Framework / Hibernate micro-lending app, available via 
* WEB gui (login authoentication)
* REST interface (http basic authentication)


Copyright (C) 2014, [Massimo Barbieri](http://www.massimobarbieri.it) 

## Business rules

* Client can apply for loan after registation.
* Loan is rejected if:
    1. the attempt to take loan is made after from 00:00 to 6:00 AM with max possible amount.
    1. reached 3 applications per day from a single IP.
* Client can extend a loan for one week, interest gets increased by a factor of 1.5.

## Environment

* Java 7
* Spring Boot
* Tomcat 
* PostgreSQL or HSQLDB
* Maven

## Application usage

1. Install Java 7 and Maven.
1. Download and unzip, or clone the project. 
1. Test the project:
    ```
    mvn test
    ```
1. Run the project - on http://localhost:8080/ by default:
    ```
    mvn spring-boot:run
    ```
1. Create a WAR file:
    ```
    mvn package
    ```

## API usage

### Register as a new User

request:
```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/users -d "{ \"name\": \"massimo\", \"surname\":\"barbieri\", \"email\":\"massimo@massimobarbieri.it\", \"password\":\"secret\" }"
```

response:
```
{"status": "success","objectId": 5,"errorMessage": "","links": [{"rel": "loans","href": "http://localhost:8080/api/loans"}]}
```

### Apply for a Loan

request:
```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans -d "{ \"amount\": 100, \"duration\":42 }" --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
{"status":"success","objectId":1,"errorMessage":"","links":[{"rel":"self","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"}]}
```

### Get info on a specific Loan

request:
```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1 --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
{"loan":{"id":1,"creationDate":1400271432200,"amount":100.00,"interest":0.03,"duration":42,"ipAddress":"127.0.0.1","loanExtensions":[]},"links":[{"rel":"self","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"},{"rel": "extend","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1/loan_extension"}]}
```

### Get info on all Loans

request:
```
curl -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans/ --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
[{"loan":{"id":1,"creationDate":1400269742160,"amount":100.00,"interest":0.18,"duration":46,"ipAddress":"127.0.0.1","loanExtensions":[{"id":1,"creationDate":1400269858314},{"id":2,"creationDate":1400269860371},{"id":3,"creationDate":1400269861472},{"id":4,"creationDate":1400269897636}]},"links":[{"rel":"self","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"},{"rel":"extend","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1/loan_extension"}]}]
```

### Extend a Loan

request:
```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" -H "Accept:application/json" http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1/loan_extension --user massimo@massimobarbieri.it:secret
```

response:
```
{"status":"success","objectId":1,"errorMessage":"","links":[{"rel":"loan","href":"http://localhost:8080/api/loans/1"}]}
```

## License

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE V 3
